# ad-banner-click-analysis
Study to identify the characteristics and behaviors that made a website visitor more likely to click on a banner ad.

The analysis used a sample of 1,000 website visitors, collected by an online ad agency. 500 users clicked on the banner ad, while the other 500 did not. The data set included observations for the variables representing a user’s age, gender, country, time spent on the website on which the ad was placed, daily Internet usage, last visit to the website (expressed as a timestamp), and broadly estimated income by his or her residence. Whether the user clicked on the ad was denoted by 1 (clicked) or 0 (did not click). No additional data cleaning steps were performed, since the provided data was sufficiently clean. The country and timestamp variables were excluded from the analysis for two reasons. Firstly, the limited number of observations for the country variable made it hard to draw generalizable conclusions. Secondly, visitors who were more likely to click on the banner ad would have done so regardless of the time of their last visit to the website. By omitting these variables, the study could focus on more relevant visitor attributes that impacted the likelihood of ad clicks.

To avoid biased estimates and to improve the accuracy of the analysis, key variables were transformed. The age variable was log-transformed to account for its right-skewed distribution in the original data set. Similarly, the income variable was squared to de-emphasize observed outliers and to address its left-skewed distribution. To account for the potential diminishing effects of daily Internet usage and time spent on the website on the likelihood of clicking the ad, these variables were square-root-transformed. This helped to create a more linear relationship between these two measures and the dependent variable, allowing for a potentially more straightforward interpretation of their impact.

Due to the sample size of the observations, this study faced limitations of scope. The sample size of 1,000 visitors, while large enough to draw some conclusions, could not have been representative of the broader population of Internet users and would not have been readily generalizable to other contexts. In addition, the data was collected by an online ad agency, and only included information about behavior on the website where the banner ad was placed, which may not have accurately reflected the behavior of visitors on other websites or channels. Furthermore, while the data included demographic information such as user age, gender, and country, it did not include other potentially important factors such as education level and personal interests, among other psychographic and behavioral attributes.

Overall, while the data provided was useful for investigating which characteristics or behaviors made a visitor more likely to click on the company’s banner ad, the limited scope of the data may have diminished the generalizability of this study's findings. Therefore, caution should be exercised when interpreting and applying this study’s results to other contexts.
